Feature changes planned for this project:
1 - swiping keyboard will be more accurate to exact input, reading user input starting with 3 major data areas to be used for the text output: first letter touched, swipe pattern shape including sharp direction changes and curves (to figure out what keys were intended), last letter touched. Basically the phone keyboard recieves and processes "started on P, swiped straight connected lines P>A>U>S>E, ended on E. 100% match PAUSE, output word" or "swiped P>G>A>S>E, heatmap indicates G is often hit instead of H, output PHASE". Another example "swiped P>L>[loop around A && S, starting with A, leading to T]>I>C. output PLASTIC". In other words, the first area of the keyboard touched by the user will narrow down the output to words starting with that letter. The sharp direction changes over the keyboard (such as a corner or point) will point to that area of the keyboard being one of the letters, affecting the output. Assembling that with the first letter, the keyboard then takes the last letter and pulls the word with the closest match from the dictionary, keeping the list of other close matches in memory for now. 

2 - Heat map. The keyboard will store a larger set of data for autocorrect improvement than other keyboards. Rather than checking to see if the previous word, or the previous 3 words were changed, the keyboard should constantly retain info for the last 1-2 paragraphs typed, and check to see if any words were corrected before it is sent, the text field exited, or the text simply passes through the 2 paragraph window (I'm thinking 1000-2000 characters, but we'll need to discuss resource usage before finalizing that. Maybe we even do a slider for huge numbers on more advanced phones. discussion needed.) in larger text outputs. It should retain the exact swipe patterns used in each word (or manually pressed keys if the user is not swiping) and compare that to what words and specific letters were corrected. This data should be stored to a heat map, which will remember what keys the user corrects most and least often, keeping metrics for user accuracy over each key. 

3 - training process. Using only local data and no AI features, the phone keyboard will gradually learn what keys the user tends to hit or miss most often. Data collected in feature 1 and 2 will change weights for autocorrect, causing the phone to gradually form a bias toward the user's typing patterns and style. Words will be heavily weighted in the dictionary based on user corrections. If "tye" is frequently corrected to "the", it will give H a more positive weight and Y a more negative weight, especially when the user inputs a similar swipe or key order. At the same time, it will weight the string "tye" very negatively after multiple corrections so it is far less likely to appear. Multiple corrections for different words which got the same letter wrong will affect the heat map, nudging a key's size smaller if it was wrong and larger if it was the correct key but didn't get used in the original output. This is part of the metric for which keys the user frequently misses and gets right, and everything in between.

4 - Typo recording "naughty list" and subsequent "ban list". If a word/string is always or frequently deleted/corrected to something else, the word will eventually go to the "naughty list". This will put additional negative weight on that word, making it even less likely to appear in the output. These "naughty list" strings will appear under a menu option in the settings, titled "Naughty List" where the user can choose to delete them from the dictionary or unban them from being output by a swipe or autocorrect. Deleting from the dictionary will not remove the string's negative training or remove it from the naughty list. The user will also be able to see the ban list, and choose to remove items from it through that same menu. So if the user frequently types "tye" by accident instead of "the", then "tye" will eventually get thrown into the naughty list where it can't be output at all, and autocorrect will forcibly change it back to "the" unless it is removed manually from the naughty list. To clarify, I think I just want the one list, and the user can choose to remove that string from the dictionary if present while keeping it on the naughty list, or the user can choose to unban the word by removing it from the naughty list.  

5 - Data relating to frequently missed and frequently correct keys. This is used in previously mentioned features, particularly to build a heat map custom tailored to the user's typing styles. This will store entirely seperate data for both the swipe type of input and the "screen pecking" individual tap style of input. These two data types will be fully segretated from each other, affecting the keyboard in entirely their own individual ways. For example, the user may misclick the Y key frequently while tap-typing, but never get it wrong while swiping. This would train the heat map positively for the swipe input Y key, so it doesn't change size or get guessed as a different letter. In other words, it trusts the user's swipe more. This would cause the peck-typing version to invisibly grow the Y key if they frequently miss it for a different key, and invisibly shrink it if they frequently hit it erroneously and then correct to a different key. This key size shift is segregated to each method of typing as well, so it's customized a little differently depending on whether the user is tapping or swiping. This should be limited to a certain minimum and maximum size. I don't think I want to remove more than 22% of the key's size

6 - some more smart features, and details. Swipes will be a tricky thing to change the input for, considering that I have no idea how it works. I have an idea for a logical framework of how I want this to work, but you and other AI agents will need to do the heavy lifting of turning the intent into working code, as well as describing how it works and different options I've got. 


_____________________________________________________



1. - let's go for maximum compatibility here. 
2. - for the "naughty list" we should probably actually call the "common typo list" so it isn't confusing to the user or agents on the project. Also, I think by default we should never block a user's tap-typed word twice in a row if it's the same word (in the same place, this will not carry over to the next word. The keyboard must distinguish data for each word, swipe, tap, etc.). If the user goes from swiping to tapping after deleting a word, it should be far less likely for the keyboard to autocorrect what is tapped on that word. Instead, as long as the user leaves it in the text field, the keyboard should compare that word to the previous swipe pattern (which resulted in an erroneous word) and compare the swipe's less likely words (the "almost matches") to look for a match. If there isn't one, it might be something the user wants to add which isn't in the dictionary yet. 
3. - my apologies, I have no idea what that means. Can you explain?
4. - the slider sounds good, with every 100 as light snap points, but allowing the user to set it in between. a range of 500-3000 sounds good. 
5. - give the user an option learn in sensetive fields(under settings probably), but also explain in that same option that none of the information will be online or sold to anyone. yes, default to off. 
6. - make that an option in the settings menu as well. Come to think of it, everything we're adding settings for should be in the settings menu under "heatmap smart keyboard settings" or something like that. 
7. - I'm not exactly sure what you mean by that, but if you're referring to a user removing a word from the ban list, keep the info for what swipes incorrectly brought up the word. There will be weight systems for the entire word as well as the individual letters typed correctly or missed within it. Basically, I want to try to create a heat map between all of the words hit and missed, all letters hit and missed, a comparison of the words those letters were in, and the user's swipe pattern. The swipe pattern will also contain the starting and ending letters as precise data points, as well as the swipe pattern compared to each individual letter and it's location on the swipe compared to where the key actually is. 

We also need to keep all of that data at a reasonable size and with smooth performance, but I'm sure there are ways to do that. 

I also agree with your approach. Instrument first to get basic data collection systems working, test those on a phone, build heatmap and weights, test those (returning data to an AI agent each time, and discussing intent in the typed words). I'm not sure what the hybrid swipe means exactly either, you'll have to explain that a bit. I would like the keyboard to prioritize comparing the swipe input to the existing dictionary, and be able to swipe with a regular dictionary. I want to build my own swiping engine that starts by being as literal as possible with the swipes. Full on accuracy, it checks for sharp corners and ends, and does it's best selecting single letters along a loop or curve. (areas where a curve changes direction for instance, are probably attempting to be one single letter or maybe it indicates two letters at different points along the curve. Curves are tricky, and will ESPECIALLY need to be learned more from the user's typing style than anything). 

It should compare curves, common curve geometries, and where they all frequently tend to show up, what words they tend to be changed to, etc. 

The primary purpose of this keyboard is to learn from the user's style and corrections, and attempt to use it's data to eventually stop making mistakes entirely. I mean there may still be one every once in a while, but for the most part it will just get it right eventually because it has a ton of data points to compare in order to make the best assumption. 

I'm not talking about anything involving AI, but probably some machine learning aspects. I do NOT want ai hallucinations to be even a remote possibility, and I want the user's corrections to weigh heavily in how the keyboard interprets input and ESPECIALLY from swipe input. The ultimate goal is that the keyboard should gradually weight everything more and more toward better and better accuracy every time the user types and either does or doesn't correct things. 

Again, there is no swipe library. It should be able to read any installed dictionary and use that for a word list, and then narrow down as the user types like so:

>user starts on s. >> word list gets narrowed down to only s
>user swipes a straight line from there, and ending at t before changing direction. >> word list narrows down to words starting with st
>user swipes back to S on the left edge [near vowel: A, near miss?] [no dictionary matches for "sts" >> confirm vowel near miss] >>assume the user meant "STA" >> narrow down to STA entries
>user swipes another straight line to R >> narrow down to STAR entries, less likely STAT entries, even less likely STAF entries
>user makes a very short swipe down and right from R to T >> eliminate STAF,STAT and narrow down entries to words beginning with START 
>user swipes from T to a space between U and I, but closer to U >> no STARTU entries, assume STARTI (because the only entry by this point is probably starting, but by this point the keyboard should still have some other nearby words like "staring, stating, staying, starring" all still remembered but marked as less likely since the pattern is closest to "starti" during this point in the swipe.
>user makes a swipe from there to N >> still most likely "starting" or "starring", but retain the STARTIN memory with the swipe and some of the other most recent words
>user swipes from N to the space between F and G >> startinf is not a word, starting IS found in the dictionary lookup and was considered the most likely, so it is outputted to the text field.

Again, I want this to be able to use any installed dictionary as the lookup tool, not requiring a swipe dictionary. How intensive is it to load an entire dictionary into the RAM, or just have it like that from system startup?

I am somewhat concerned about performance and memory usage. I don't want anything in the gigabyte range at all. 

Anyway, please make some final notes, answering any questions and making any comments in those as well.

If you have suggestions, please add those as well.

And again, no code edits yet. Only text or md files, which we will get back to later. 

